<title>Glossary</title>
<nowiki>
<div id="asciidoc">
<h1>Glossary</h1>
<p>
<tt>&lt;<a href="mailto:maintainer@fakesite.com">maintainer@fakesite.com</a>&gt;</tt><br>
version 253601e36e,
2014-04-28
</p>
<h2><a name="_glossary"></a>Glossary</h2>
<dl>
<dt>
<a name="glossary_collection_centered"></a>Collection-centered system
</dt>
<dd>
<p>
Many <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-relational_database">non-relational</a> databases store their data in individual collections, which are <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markup_language">marked up</a> with appropriate information about the data itself.  These collections can then be parsed to extract this data in an organized way.
</p>
</dd>
<dt>
<a name="glossary_level"></a>Level
</dt>
<dd>
<p>
In a <a href="#glossary_collection_centered">collection-centered</a> system, <em>level</em> refers to how far we have recursively stepped.
</p>
<div class="listingblock">
<div class="title">In YAML</div>
<div class="content"></div></div>
</dd>
<dt>
<a name="glossary_table_centered"></a>Table-centered system
</dt>
<dd>
<p>
Traditional relational databases store their data in tables, which encapsulate a single <em>type of thing</em> and are then connected to other types of things with relationships.
</p>
</dd>
<dt>
<a name="glossary_data_source_table"></a>Table (data source)
</dt>
<dd>
<p>
A type of data source object.  In a data source, "table" refers to something like a relational database table, with <a href="#glossary_data_source_rows">rows</a> and <a href="#glossary_data_source_columns">columns</a>.
</p>
</dd>
<dt>
<a name="glossary_data_source_rows"></a>Row (data source)
</dt>
<dd>
<p>
A data source row refers to a single <a href="#glossary_data_source_table">table</a> row, that is, a set of <a href="#glossary_data_source_columns">column</a> data corresponding to a single record in a table, however that is identified.  A CSV or other flat file data source is usually defined by newlines, for example.  Relational database systems define query output by row.
</p>
</dd>
<dt>
<a name="glossary_data_source_columns"></a>Column (data source)
</dt>
<dd>
<p>
A data source column refers to a single <a href="#glossary_data_source_table">table</a> column.  Every row should have a marker deliniating every column in a <a href="#glossary_data_source_table">table</a>, although those column records may be empty for any given row.  Ideally, the data source can also provide <a href="#glossary_data_source_types">type</a> information for the columns.
</p>
</dd>
<dt>
<a name="glossary_data_source_collection"></a>Collection (data source)
</dt>
<dd>
<p>
Collections store data like an outline.  A type of data source object.  Each collection will have either <a href="#glossary_data_source_key">keys</a> or <a href="#glossary_data_source_node_id">node_ids</a>, and each of those should have a <a href="#glossary_data_source_value">value</a>.
</p>
</dd>
<dt>
<a name="glossary_data_source_key"></a>Key (data source)
</dt>
<dd>
<p>
A text identifier for a  <a href="#glossary_data_source_value">value</a>.  In oly, all keys will be unique within a collection, but many data sources do not require keys to be unique.  Compare to <a href="#glossary_data_source_node_id">node_ids</a>.
</p>
</dd>
<dt>
<a name="glossary_data_source_node_id"></a>Tuple (data source)
</dt>
<dd>
<p>
An ordered, integer identifier for a  <a href="#glossary_data_source_value">value</a>.  Compare to <a href="#glossary_data_source_key">keys</a>.  See the wikipedia page on <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tuple">node_ids</a> for details.  We use the term this way in Oly to avoid using terms like "index" for these items; an index in a relational database is not the same thing as an array index.  Tuples
</p>
</dd>
<dt>
<a name="glossary_data_source_value"></a>Value (data source)
</dt>
<dd>
<p>
Data that corresponds to a <a href="#glossary_data_source_key">key</a> or an <a href="#glossary_data_source_node_id">node_id</a>.  Can have a <a href="#glossary_data_source_types">type</a>.  Will be either a scalar value or another <a href="#glossary_data_source_collection">collection</a>.
</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</div>
</nowiki>
