<title>Oly (main page)</title>
<nowiki>
<div id="asciidoc">
<h1>Oly</h1>
<p>
<tt>&lt;<a href="mailto:maintainer@fakesite.com">maintainer@fakesite.com</a>&gt;</tt><br>
version 253601e36e,
2014-04-28
</p>
<h2><a name="_current_features"></a>Current Features</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
Internal node queue and string buffer
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Node hierarchy preserved and sent through
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Data source interface for external sources
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Boundary buffers to transfer external encodings/character sets to internal (ICU) encoding and back again.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Storage for several different types of data in each node.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
SHA3 hash function built in and ready for use.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Polyglot (that is, translatable) error handling
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="_goals"></a>Goals</h2>
<ol type="1">
<li>
<p>
Finish Oly 1.0
</p>
</li>
</ol>
<h2><a name="_projects"></a>Projects</h2>
<ol type="1">
<li>
<p>
Commit to core API design and code it.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Clean up existing work
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Write tests for all facets of core API.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Establish what "finish" means.
</p>
</li>
</ol>
<h2><a name="_tasks"></a>Tasks</h2>
<ol type="1">
<li>
<p>
Commit to and code core API
</p>
<ol type="a">
<li>
<p>
Top level configuration file loading and storage (due Friday, 4-18-14)
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
OlyString.  Will be a dictionary.  Where will it be used and how?  Tags, Anchors, Aliases, etc.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Table data source input objects.  Columns, rows, tables, etc.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Flesh out data source dequeue and extract functions.
</p>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Clean up existing work
</p>
<ol type="a">
<li>
<p>
Better buffering on external interfaces (SQLite is very slow with no buffer).
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Remove unneeded data source and node functions.  Define clearer boundaries between these objects.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Bring doc and lib Makefile.am into main directory.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
String buffer has some problems.  Runs too many times.  Could use debugging.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Remove unused errors.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Clean up core library.  All tests link to core, core is huge.  Lighten it.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
error handling for library interfaces.  Should use translatable strings stored in the i18n folder.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Organize functions in files better.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Verify destructor functions free all memory, and that they are called when they should be.
</p>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Establish what "finish" means
</p>
<ol type="a">
<li>
<p>
Set release date.
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
Commit to features for release date.
</p>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
</div>
</nowiki>
